6.0 English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello, this is 6 Minute English from BBCLearningEnglish. I'm Neil.
And I'm Beth.
Lots of things can make us feel embarrassed.
That self-conscious, uncomfortable feeling when your face blush is red
and you wish you could just disappear.
Have you had any embarrassing moments, Neil?
Yes, many.
Once I met my parents in a car park and I saw them arriving in their car
and I waved my hands around in a very silly way
but unfortunately I soon discovered that it wasn't my parents.
It was another couple.
That's really embarrassing.
I remember answering the phone.
I thought it was my best friend and I said hello in a very silly voice
and then they asked to speak to my dad.
And it wasn't my friend.
What was the voice?
Hello.
I do.
But embarrassment is more than just shyness and blushing.
When it comes to our health, there's no end of things to be embarrassed about.
Yes, and some people feel so embarrassed that they don't go to see a doctor
when they should.
Sometimes with serious consequences.
In this program, we'll be discussing the issue of medical embarrassment.
And as usual, we'll be learning some useful new words and phrases.
So, I have a question.
Neil, according to the UK's nursing times newspaper,
what percentage of people surveyed said they had delayed visiting their doctor
out of embarrassment and then later being diagnosed with a health condition.
Was it a 21%, b 41%, or c 61%.
So, I think it's probably a lot.
So, c 61%.
Okay, we will find out if that's correct at the end of the program.
As humans, we get embarrassed if we feel different from others,
especially if the difference is physical.
But how does feeling embarrassed about a medical condition impact our relationship with the doctor?
Here's Dr Vanessa Appier, consultant in sexual health at Bart's hospital in London,
explaining more to BBC Radio 4 program inside health.
So, they'll delay accessing the clinic and also seeking treatment.
And so, then you'll often see people that could have been diagnosed with what's happening
much earlier and could have had earlier intervention, but it's delayed quite significantly.
And so, I then feel that we see a lot of people suffering in silence, really.
Many people delay going to the doctor.
They postpone going or put it off until a later time.
As a result, their problem isn't diagnosed.
To diagnose means to identify a disease or health problem through medical examination.
For some, feelings of embarrassment are so strong, they prefer to suffer in silence,
to struggle with pain without seeking help.
Rather than visit the doctor, but fortunately, there are things you can do to help.
Writing your problem down, going with the friend,
and visiting a doctor you trust are some ideas, doctor, appear recommends.
There are ways that doctors can help as well as doctor Vanessa Appier explains here
to James Gallagher, presenter of BBC Radio 4 program inside health.
Can you tell us what techniques you used to put people at ease?
I am a brain transparency to the conversation in own it and say that I'm going to be asking
you some quite personal questions and there may be also into examination.
I want to assure you that this is confidential, that this is a safe non-judgmental space.
So really, I often name the words to create that space as well.
Also in my manner, I would hope and in my non-verbal cues.
James asks what doctors can do to put people at ease to make them feel calm and relaxed.
And doctor Appier describes her ideal conversation.
It's a safe space, it's non-judgmental, and what is said is confidential.
Capt. Private and not shared with anyone.
As well as discussing embarrassing problems, sensitively,
doctor Appier also uses non-verbal cues.
The expression on her face, her hand movements, and the tone of her voice
rather than words to communicate and relax at the patient.
Embarrassment is normal, and with support, hopefully more of us will feel safe to visit
the doctor despite it.
Okay, Beth isn't it time to reveal the answer to your question?
It is. I asked you what percentage of people said they had delayed visiting the doctor
because they were embarrassed, but then had later been diagnosed with a health condition.
Do you remember what you said, Neil?
Yes, I think I said, see 61%.
I'm afraid that is not the correct answer. It was, in fact, a 21% or just over a fifth.
Okay, let's recap the new vocabulary we've used, starting with delay to postpone or put off until a later time.
To diagnose a disease or medical condition, means to identify it by recognizing the symptoms and examining the patient.
If you suffer in silence, you endure and struggle with painful feelings without asking someone for help.
The phrasal verb, put someone at ease, means to make someone feel calm and relaxed.
The adjective confidential means kept private and secret and describes information which is not shared with anyone else.
And finally, non-verbal cues are types of communication using facial expressions, hand gestures or tone of voice rather than speech
to show your feelings. Once again, our six minutes are up, but why not build your vocabulary and listening skills even more with the quiz and worksheet related to this program?
They're both available now on our website, BBCLearningEnglish.com.
See you there.
Bye!